other leg, there's a chance that he uses his arm to lock my leg, just like this.
So I just have to kind of like keep pushing until my knee gets free over there.
Guys, once I got in this situation, immediately I'm going to start blocking him because I know that he can roll, he can half roll, there's a lot of options for him. So, as soon as I got here,
I'm going to control his belt and I'm going to control his pants.
Now if he tries to roll, try to roll Zach, he's stuck.
No way he's going to roll anymore, just because I have his belt and I have his pants.
Guys, that step, I'm going to use his belt as a help for me to come up. Okay, so from here, I'm going to go over here. Okay.
And now I'm going to take my time and find his lapel as deep as I can, almost like on his shoulder line. Okay, let me just move a little bit, Zach, here. Almost like, imagine you want to control his lapel around his shoulder line over there.
And now my very last step, I have to make sure that his shoulder is on the ground, as you guys can see his shoulder, his right shoulder here, is not flat on the ground yet. So I'm going to stretch his leg now. Okay. And now I have to flat his whole body out. Okay, I have to put his whole body flat.
So I'm going to put my hand on the ground and I'm going to start hip escape, hip escape, and hip escape. Once I got here, I'm going to bend my both legs,
and I used to joke, guys, that you're going to tell him a secret. So imagine you're going to put your mouth nearby his ear. So I'm going to go from here to there and even before I tell him the secret, he already taps.
Okay, so.
fighting against Zach, he's on my closed guard. There's a chance that I find him like this already,
just recoil my closed guard from somewhere and I found him here, but there's also a chance that he has some posture,
so I'm going to control his lapel, I'm going to bring my hand underneath his arm and I'm going to involve his arm. Okay. Once I did that, this hand comes to the other side, palm up.
Okay. Now I'm going to open my closed guard and I'm going to bring his leg to me. Okay. Now that I did that, I'm going to use my elbow versus his face.
pushing to the other side until you get my leg over here. Guys, he's going to keep his armpit on top of my leg over there, right? So he's tight over there.
So now I'm just going to give myself some space, until I get my knee free and I lock the triangle. Okay, once I got it, once I lock the triangle, as I said before, immediately I'm going to start controlling his belt and his pants, and I'm going to not let him roll.
So he's going to try to roll and he's completely stuck. No chance he's going to roll. So then, I'm going to let go my hand on his pants and I'm going to use my hand on his belt to pull me up.
Almost like a, your momentum here, your leverage. Okay. So I'm going to do this. There's a chance that in the first shot, I cannot find his lapel yet. Look.
Look how far my hand is to his lapel. So I'm going to use my right hand on the back of his gi to give him a pull and get this hand even deeper.
Now, my left hand goes to the shoulder line, grabbing his lapel. I'm going to stretch my leg down and I'm going to hip escape, hip escape, and hip escape. And then once I got here, I'm just going to bend my both legs.
I'm going to come up and imagine you want to tell him some secret. He's going to tap. So guys, the most important thing here is that in the very end, we get him completely flat.
Look how he's flat. Look how he's all his right, this right side of his body is flat on the ground. Completely different than if I had him like, it's going to be hard to tap him from here, you know, like, I don't even have too much leverage. So that's why I have to control his shoulder line on his lapel over there.
And then I hip escape, hip escape, hip escape until I get him flat. Once he's flat, tell him that secret, and he's going to tap.
```